Cknieling/add user manual (#152)
Esri/serlio: README.md

Serlio is well suited for managing the procedural generation of architectural 3D content in digital sets. However, Serlio is restricted to the procedural generation of single buildings / objects. Serlio does not include the city layouting and street network editing tools of CityEngine i.e. the rich CityEngine toolset to design a city from scratch (or based on geographic data) is still needed.

> ## Quick Start

Reviewer: I would limit the Quick Start to Windows and the installer, i.e. in the second step just write "Please see below for installation on Linux."). The quick start should be as concise as possible.

Author: limited the quick start guide to windows.

> 1. Use CityEngine to [export a Rule Package](https://doc.arcgis.com/en/cityengine/latest/help/help-rule-package.htm) (RPK).

Reviewer: I would leave this away in favor of attaching an "extrude.rpk" to the release (see below).

Author: removed paragraph and added a extrude.rpk to doc/data/extrude.rpk

> 1. Acquire the Serlio binaries, either: 
>     * ... download the [desired release](https://github.com/Esri/serlio/releases)
>     (on linux you still need to manually [install the local build](#linux-2))
>     * ... or [build](#build-instructions) them yourself, which will result in an `install` directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install Serlio by downloading the latest [installer](https://github.com/Esri/serlio/releases/latest).
```

Author: Changed to 
1. Install Serlio by downloading the latest [installer](https://github.com/Esri/serlio/releases/latest). Please see [below](#linux-2) for installation on linux.

> 1. Start Maya (Note: you may want to start maya from a shell to see the Serlio log output).

Reviewer: That's not necessary on Windows, there is the extra text output window.

Author: removed

1. Open the plugin manager: "Windows" > "Settings/Preferences" > "Plug-in Manager"
1. Enable `serlio.so` / `serlio.mll`

> 1. The plugin should load and a new menu item `Serlio` should appear in Maya.

Reviewer: Leave this away. By using the installer, Serlio should be automatically loaded.

Author: removed.

> 1. In Maya, select a mesh and use the `Serlio` menu to assign the RPK. This will apply the selected rule to each face in the mesh.

Reviewer: "... to assign a rule package (RPK), for example [this one](link to attached file) which creates a simple extrusion based on a "height" parameter. You can author your own RPKs with CityEngine."

The sample extrude.rpk should have a single "height" attribute and be created with CityEngine 2021.1

Author: done

1. Make sure the geometry is still selected and go to the `serlio` tab in the Attribute editor. Here you can edit the rule parameters.
1. To create materials, apply one of the two commands in the `Serlio` menu on the generated model. Please note the the two material systems are mutually exclusive at this point.

## Table of Contents

* [User Manual](#user-manual)
* [Examples](https://esri.github.io/cityengine/serlio)
* [Developer Manual](#developer-manual)
* [Release Notes](#release-notes)
* [Known Limitations](#known-limitations)
* [Licensing information](#licensing-information)

External documentation:
* [CityEngine Tutorials](https://doc.arcgis.com/en/cityengine/latest/tutorials/introduction-to-the-cityengine-tutorials.htm)
* [CityEngine CGA Reference](https://doc.arcgis.com/en/cityengine/latest/cga/cityengine-cga-introduction.htm)
* [CityEngine Manual](https://doc.arcgis.com/en/cityengine/latest/help/cityengine-help-intro.htm)
* [CityEngine SDK API Reference](https://esri.github.io/cityengine-sdk/html/index.html)

## User Manual

### Installation

> 

Reviewer: Add: "Serlio currently expects rule packages authored with CityEngine 2021.1 or older."

Author: Added to "Add rule" section

Reviewer: See general review comments

Author: fixed

> #### Windows: Provided Binaries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Windows: Provided Installer
```

Author: fixed

> 1. Download the MSI installer for your Maya version from the [desired release](https://github.com/Esri/serlio/releases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download the MSI installer for the latest [release](https://github.com/Esri/serlio/releases/latest).
```

Author: fixed

1. Run the MSI installer.
1. Start Maya.
1. You should now see the new menu item `Serlio`.

#### Windows: Install local build

> See [below](#windows-2) in the developer documentation.

Reviewer: Leave this away - developers will understand that anyways.

Author: removed.

#### Linux: Provided Binaries

> 1. Acquire the Serlio binaries by downloading the [desired release](https://github.com/Esri/serlio/releases).

Reviewer: see above

2. Proceed like [below](#linux-2) in the developer documentation.

#### Linux: Install local build

> See [below](#linux-2) in the developer documentation

Reviewer: see above

Author: removed.

### Using the Serlio plugin
#### Add rule files
1. Create and select a polygon mesh.
1. Go to the `Serlio` menu and select "Attach CityEngine Rule Package". 
1. Select a `.rpk` rule file from the [examples](https://esri.github.io/cityengine/serlio) or [export your own rule file from CityEngine](https://doc.arcgis.com/en/cityengine/latest/help/help-rule-package.htm).

> 1. The selected rule will be applied to each face in the mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The selected rule will be applied to the mesh. It depends on the rule how multiple faces are handled.
```

Author: changed

#### Remove rule files
1. Select the generated model(s).
1. Go to the `Serlio` menu and select "Remove CityEngine Rule Package".
1. Only the initial shape mesh with default materials remains.

#### Creating materials
Currently we only support one material type per mesh (see [known limitations](#known-limitations)).

##### Viewport (Stingray) materials
1. Select the generated model(s).
1. Go to the `Serlio` menu and select "Create Materials".
1. The materials for all selected models will be generated and displayed in the viewport.

##### Arnold materials
1. Select the generated model(s).
1. Go to the `Serlio` menu and select "Create Arnold Materials".

> 1. The arnold materials for all selected models will be generated.

Reviewer: upper case Arnold

Author: fixed

1. Use the arrow on the right of an attribute to reset the attribute to its default value. The default value might depend on the seed and/or other attributes.

## Developer Manual

### Software Requirements

#### All Platforms
* License for CityEngine (2019.0 or later), e.g. to author Rule Packages.
* CMake 3.13 or later (http://www.cmake.org)
* Autodesk Maya 2019 or later or the corresponding development kit

#### Windows
* Windows 7, 8.1 or 10 (64bit)
* Required C++ compiler: Visual Studio 2019 with Toolset MSVC 14.27 or later
* WiX Toolset 3.11.1: Optional, required for building .msi installers
* Required flags for extension libraries release mode: `/bigobj /GR /EHsc /MD`

#### Linux
* RedHat Enterprise Linux 7.x or compatible
* Required C++ compiler: GCC 9.3 or later (RedHat Enterprise Linux DevToolSet 9.1)
* Required flags for extension libraries: `-std=c++17 -D_GLIBCXX_USE_CXX11_ABI=0 -march=nocona -fvisibility=hidden -fvisibility-inlines-hidden -Wl,--exclude-libs,ALL`

### Build Instructions 

#### Windows

##### Quick build for the impatient
1. Open a Visual Studio 2017 x64 Command Shell in the `serlio` root directory.

> 2. Call `powershell .\build.ps1`.

Reviewer: Let's remove this one, devs will open visual studio anyways on Windows

##### Building with Visual Studio

> 1. Open a Visual Studio 2017 x64 Command Shell in the `serlio` root directory, i.e. at `<your path to>\esri-cityengine-sdk\examples\serlio`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open a Visual Studio x64 Command Shell in the `serlio` root directory, i.e. at `<your path to>\esri-cityengine-sdk\examples\serlio`.
```

Author: removed.

2. Create a build directory with `mkdir build` and change into it with `cd build`.
3. Run `cmake` to generate a Visual Studio solution:
   ```
   cmake -G "Visual Studio 16 2019" ../src
   ```
   Use options `-Dprt_DIR=<ce sdk root>\cmake` and `-Dmaya_DIR=<maya installation root>` to override the default locations of CityEngine SDK and Maya.
1. Open the generated `serlio_parent.sln` in Visual Studio.

> 2. Switch the solution configuration to "Release" or "RelWithDebInfo" ("Debug" is not supported with release CE SDK).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Switch the solution configuration to "Release" or "RelWithDebInfo" ("Debug" is not supported).
```

Author: removed.

3. Call `build` on the `INSTALL` project.
1. Proceed with the Installation Instructions below.

##### Building on the Command Line

> 1. Open a Visual Studio 2019 x64 Command Shell in the `serlio` root directory, i.e. at `<your path to>\esri-cityengine-sdk\examples\serlio`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open a Visual Studio x64 Command Shell in the `serlio` root directory, i.e. at `<your path to>\esri-cityengine-sdk\examples\serlio`.
```

Author: removed

## Quick Start

> 1. Install Serlio by downloading the latest [installer](https://github.com/Esri/serlio/releases/latest). Please see [below](#linux-2) for installation on linux.

Author: fixed.

1. Start Maya.

> 1. The plugin should load and a new menu item `Serlio` should appear in Maya.

Author: done.

### Installation

#### Windows: Provided Installer
1. Download the MSI installer for the latest [release](https://github.com/Esri/serlio/releases/latest).
1. Run the MSI installer.
1. Start Maya.
1. You should now see the new menu item `Serlio`.

#### Linux: Provided Binaries
1. Acquire the Serlio binaries for the latest [release](https://github.com/Esri/serlio/releases/latest).
2. Proceed like [below](#linux-2) in the developer documentation.

### Using the Serlio plugin
#### Add rule files
1. Create and select a polygon mesh.
1. Go to the `Serlio` menu and select "Attach CityEngine Rule Package". 
1. Select a `.rpk` rule file:
   1. Use [this basic rule](/doc/data/extrude.rpk) which creates a simple extrusion based on a "height" parameter

>    1. Use a rule from the [examples](https://esri.github.io/cityengine/serlio)

Author: fixed.

>    1. [Export your own rule file from CityEngine](https://doc.arcgis.com/en/cityengine/latest/help/help-rule-package.htm). Serlio currently expects rule packages authored with CityEngine 2021.1 or older.

Author: done.
